Well, good morning, everybody.
Hope you guys are having a great morning so far.
As Joseph said, my name is Danelle.
I get to be the next gen pastor here, and I'm excited to be with you all this morning.
Can we just welcome those who are watching online and are really on campus?
Yeah, welcome.
Come on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Hey, before, we're kicking off a three week series called His Name Shall Be Called.
And I got the privilege of starting off this series.
We're gonna be looking at the prophet Isaiah, how he gives Jesus these names.
Now these names are just to describe him.
It's about declaring who he actually is.
I'm excited as I start today and next week we're here from Luke.
It'll be good after we're here from Christine Birch as she closes off this series.
But to start off Christmas, I got a question for everyone.
Raise your hand if you love Christmas.
Super simple.
Okay.
Now raise your hand if you don't.
Okay, there's a few, okay.
I gotta be honest.
I'm with the majority.
I love Christmas.
I love, I really do.
And it's because I grew up as a Jehovah Witness.
And Jehovah Witnesses, they don't celebrate Christmas.
So I, during my life, I didn't celebrate Christmas at all until one day, a family friend,
invited us to a Christmas service at her church.
And then I fell in love.
I got a taste of Christmas.
And from that point forward, it has been Christmas overload for me.
Never had my own family, my Philippia, my two boys as in JJ.
We go all in for Christmas.
I'm talking about November 1st.
I'm kicking that pumpkin out of the yard and I'm putting in a Christmas tree.
Like we're playing Christmas music as November 1st.
It is going on in our house.
My son has those how to talk to Alexa now.
So he says, Alexa, play this.
I love it.
It's fantastic.
Decorations are all over.
We go all in for Christmas.
Like we love creating traditions and memories.
And if I'm being honest, it's definitely, I'm making it for lost time.
Like I had 15 years of not slowing Christmas.
So this is like a nostalgia payment plan that I'm on right now.
I'm trying to get as much Christmas in as quickly as possible.
But as a family, we love it.
We love that we're creating new traditions, and we're starting new things with our boys.
I love that my boys are able to have that, the thought of, man, I can't wait till Christmas comes so I can have some guy in these pepper pot.
And when they're older, have that Jamaican rum cake.
I cannot wait for them to be able to know it.
When I wake up in the morning, this is what we're gonna expect.
These are the memories we're gonna have.
They get to pass on to their families and their families.
I love the fact that we,
get to create these traditions and memories with our boys.
And if I'm telling the truth, even though I love the season, it wasn't until I was an adult that I truly understand the Christmas story.
See, I knew the songs, I knew that Jesus was born in a manger, I knew the images, but I truly didn't understand the miracle.
I didn't understand the magnitude of what was actually happening.
Because if you and I were writing the Christmas story, it would be so different.
Like I'm talking about, it would be like a Marvel movie.
Like the sky opens.
There's music.
Then Jesus coming down, all like superhero-like.
Like I'm talking, it would be a grand entrance.
There'll be armies and there'll be thunder and lightning and fire.
It would be so big that people would have no choice but to be like, oh yeah, that is God.
That's if we were writing it.
But it's actually so different.
The way the Christmas story is actually what actually happens is so unique.
The mighty God shows up in the quiet, in the small, in the personal.
And if we're honest, that kind of creates some tension for us.
Because many of us walk with two competing ideas of who God is.
For some of us, God is big, but not involved.
We believe that God runs the universe, but not our lives.
He works at other people's stories, but not ours.
We look at our old situations and we think, no, my problems are way too small for God.
Like, he doesn't care that I can't pay my electric bill.
He doesn't care that my kids have their fist meltdown for the day.
He doesn't care that my investments are tanking.
He doesn't care that I can't sell my house and I need it.
It's on the market for nine months and it needs to sell.
He doesn't care about the small things.
He's doing big things over there.
He's doing miracles over there.
But here with me, God's too big to worry about my problems.
Or maybe you swing the totally opposite direction.
Where God is personal, but he's not powerful.
He's my father.
He's my friend.
He comforts me.
He listens.
The God who split the Red Sea.
The God that erases me from the dead.
Yeah, that God, that's a whole other God.
He's not even, that doesn't make sense to me.
Like he's the God of peaceful Pinterest quotes.
He's the God that makes all the warm fuzzies during Christmas.
He's not the God that can actually change my marriage.
the God that can change my diagnosis.
See, we pray because in the moment it makes us feel good, but deep down we will expect anything to shift.
We believe that God cares about us.
He cares about our heart, but we're not sure if he actually cares or wants to work in our circumstances.
See, sometimes actually we
We think that our Netflix or our Spotify or maybe in chat, CBT, that they understand us more than God actually does.
What if God is big and he's personal?
We've got his personal and he's mighty.
Can he really be both?
Well, that's why we are going to look at Luke 1.
And that's why Luke 1 matters so much because in this quiet room,
In an overlooked town, we meet a God who is instantly mighty and intimately personal at the very same time.
This is what Ava is inviting us to rediscover.
Isaiah prophesied this hundreds of years ago before Jesus was born when he wrote this, for to us a child is born, to us a son is given.
He will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father, prince of peace.
Isaiah wasn't describing four inspirational titles, he was declaring who Jesus is.
That Jesus would be the embodiment of the mighty God.
So today as we begin Advent, this is where we start with the name mighty God.
I want us to look at Luke 1 26 to 38 together because in this passage we see exactly how the mighty God steps into the world and what that means for your life and mind today.
So let's look closely at Luke 1, 26 to 28.
Now, to put it out there, this is just a birth announcement.
This is an account of the mighty God, how the mighty God works.
It's a story about fear and humility and surrender, the surprising nearness of God in the middle of an ordinary life.
So let's look at Luke 1, verse 26.
And this begins with a detail that we normally would skip over.
And this is what it says.
God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a village in Galilee.
Let's pause right there for a second, okay?
Because if you and I were right in the story of the Savior of the world coming in, we would not choose Nazareth.
Now, Nazareth was small, unimportant, overlooked.
It had no power, no prestige, no influence.
It was a kind of town that ancient people made fun of.
It was like the biblical version
of some towns you see around here in Simple County, like Wisedale or Hillsdale or Coldwater or Utopia or Daleston.
I apologize if you're from there.
But if you blink once you're right through those towns.
It's actually fighting Nathaniel.
He famously said this in John 146.
He said, can anything good come from Nazareth?
Now, that line sounds like a joke, but it was real.
That's a reputation that Nazareth had.
Now, I'm not saying that if you come from those towns that nothing good can come from utopia, I'm sure.
I'm sure something good comes from utopia, but Nazareth, you know, people are like, psh.
Like, Nazareth was the place you went to if you got lost.
The kind of place that nothing exciting happens.
The kind of place that you drive through, not a place you stay.
And yet, this is exactly where God
This is where God chooses to begin the greatest story in human history.
So already we're learning something about the mighty God, something super important, that God doesn't start where we expect, God starts where we overlook.
God is a start where we expect, God starts where we overlook.
See Nazareth represents all the places we assume are too small or too ordinary for a big God to move in.
And when some of us hear this, we kind of get it.
See, Nazareth looks like your job that feels stuck, or your home that feels chaotic, or your marriage that feels distant, or your bank account that feels stressed, or maybe a seasoned parenting that feels like it's never ending in your justice survival mode.
Maybe it's your commute, your kitchen table, your anxiety, your quiet disappointment.
We all have a Nazareth.
We assume that God works in impressive places and impressive people, but Luke wants us to see that the mighty God often works in places we have written off.
See, Nazareth isn't an exception.
It's the pattern.
Luke continues in verse 20, 70 says this, to a virgin named Mary, she was engaged to be married to a man named Joseph.
Now a little history on Mary.
Mary was a young teenage girl.
She was poor.
She came from an ordinary family.
She doesn't have a really impressive resume.
She doesn't have social standing.
She doesn't have big influence.
She's just a normal regular girl.
If you and I were choosing the mother of the savior of the world, we wouldn't choose Mary.
We would find someone that had status, maybe someone royal, someone that had good fashion sex.
Someone that could, you know, maybe had a little money, let's be real.
Someone that had influence, someone that we could be like, man, you could change the world, like you deserve this.
But God chooses Mary.
And I've raised you to something else that we learned about the mighty God, is that the mighty God chooses people who would never choose.
This is consistent all throughout scripture.
We see that God chooses people that we wouldn't normally choose, that God chose Moses, who stutters, get in who hides, David who was forgotten, the disciples who are uneducated laborers and social misfits, and Mary, a teenage girl from a town that no one cares about.
See, why would God choose her?
Why would God choose her to be the mother of Jesus?
Because God's might is seen, not in our strength,
but in his presence.
Paul writes this in 1 Corinthians 1 verse 27, it says, God shows the weak things of the world to shame the strong.
When we feel unqualified, unknown or unseen, God often says, mmm, you're exactly where I do my best work.
Luke continues in verse 28, he says this, Gabriel appeared to her and said, greetings favor women, the Lord is with you.
Verse 29, confused and disturbed, Mary tried to think what the angel could mean.
Y'all, of course she was confused and disturbed, like an angel just showed up in her living room.
Like if an angel showed up in my living room, I'm doing this, ready?
Watch.
Boop, boop, boop.
Now we're one.
Yeah, this figure is up in my living room saying some things I'm not sure about.
Does this count as a break in answering because I got to report something.
If you're anything like me, you'd be like, whoa, this is crazy.
An angel just showed up in my living room and I said, hey, greetings, favored woman, the Lord is with you.
Mary's life just changed.
The mighty God has just stepped into her personal world.
But notice what the angel says next in verse 30.
Don't be afraid, Mary.
The angel told her, for you have found favor with God.
See Gabriel doesn't say, hey, be strong.
Get it all together.
You'll be fine.
No, no, what he says, he leads with God's presence.
The first gift that God gives is always himself.
This is like God's pattern throughout scripture.
When Moses was scared, when he felt overwhelmed, God says, hey, I will be with you.
When Joshua, steps into leadership, God said, the Lord, your God, is with you wherever you go.
When Jesus sends out his disciples, he said, hey, I am with you always.
The mighty God's first act of power is his presence.
Before God works throughout Mary, before God works through Mary, he reminds her that he is with her.
And this is how God meets us today.
We want God to show up big and say, hey, God, fix my marriage, solve my finances, heal my body, change my situations, but often the most powerful thing that God does first is remind us that he is with us.
He says, I am with you.
I am with you in your marriage.
I am with you in your house.
I am with you in your finances.
I am with you in that argument.
I am with you in your mess.
I am with you in that situation.
God reminds us time and time again that we are not alone, that He is with us in the middle of our situation.
Then Mary asked the question we all ask when God calls us into something that feels
Absolutely overwhelming.
He says this, but how can this happen?
She was right.
How can this happen?
Now, this isn't doubt, y'all.
This is just pure honesty.
I'm sure Mary's like, oh, Gabriel, sir.
Hello, hi there, hi.
I took grade nine house class.
I know biology.
How is this gonna work?
How is this going to work?
Like what are you telling me that, what?
In that moment, she recognized the impossible.
She understood that there was a human reality calling, colliding with a divine calling.
She understands what it will cost her socially and relationally
She understands that this will cost her everything.
See, in the world at that time, becoming pregnant wasn't just frowned upon, it was absolutely devastating.
She'd lose her reputation, her engagement to her fiance, Joseph, her standing in the community, and even her safety would be at risk.
Saying yes to God meant stepping into a future where she could be misunderstood, judged, isolated,
But she sees the impossibility.
Mary voices a question that we all have.
A question that we all ask when we are afraid or sometimes that we are afraid to ask.
And the question is how?
How God?
How will you do this?
How will you show up here?
How will you make the situation made good?
How?
I don't know about you, but this is part of the story.
This is where I really connect with Mary.
Because I've asked that question in so many different situations in my life.
I remember when my wife and I were getting ready to expect our firstborn Azariah.
We were excited.
But deep down, I was terrified.
Now, of course, becoming a parent is a little bit of a scary thing.
There's a lot of unknown.
But the truth, I grew up with a single mom and my grandma.
Now they did an amazing job.
Like I wouldn't be the man I am today if it wasn't for those amazing women.
The love they poured out over me is incredible.
But there's still a gap.
My mom raised me the best way she could.
She tried to wear both hats, the mom hat and the dad hat.
And to be honest, there is also a little nuance about being raised by Jamaican.
It's like it's a little curriculum, really.
And there's some things I was like, man, I hope I inherit this from my mom, my grandma, because it was amazing the way that they raised me.
But there's also things I was like, I have no idea what it looks like to be a dad.
I'm recounting my friends being like, hey, so give me your
You're quick notes of what it means to be a dad.
And they'll be like, okay, number one, make sure that when your wife wakes up in the middle of the night to feed the baby, you wake up too.
I was like, yeah, yeah, I'll try that.
But there's still doubt in my mind if I still had no idea what it would look like.
What would it look like to have to be a dad?
Can I actually do this?
How God?
How will you show up here?
How will this work?
What would it look like?
See that feeling, that mix of calling and fear, excitement, and adequacy?
That's where Mary was standing.
She doesn't pretend she understands.
She simply brings her honest question to God and says, how will this be?
And Gabriel responds like this in verse 35.
The Holy Spirit will come upon you and the power of the most high will overshadow you.
This is the same language that we see in Genesis 1 where the Spirit hovered over the waters before God brought order out of chaos.
In other words, the mighty God does his greatest work through his spirit, not our strength.
The mighty God.
does his greatest work through his spirit and not our strength.
Mary doesn't need a five step plan of, hey, this is what you need to do.
She doesn't need all the answers.
What she needs is God's presence and God's power.
And this next part is how the entire passage hinges on really is in verse 37, it says this, for nothing is impossible with God.
Nothing is impossible with God.
The mighty God is not limited by what limits us.
We put human standards on God.
We put human limitations on God.
See, Mary sees obstacles, but God sees beginnings.
Mary sees her own capacity, but God sees his power
Mary sees them impossible, but God sees the beginning of salvation, which is where the story becomes more personal for us.
Because most of us are living exactly where Mary is living, caught between what we understand and what God is doing, between what we see and what we hope for, between our reality and God's promises, between our capacity and what God has called us.
But Mary models what faith looks like when life doesn't make sense in such a beautiful way.
She says this in verse 38, I and the Lord's servant made everything you have said about me come true.
See, Mary doesn't fully understand.
She isn't fearless.
She doesn't have everything figured out.
She's just willing to trust Him.
She's willing to trust Him.
what God has asked her to do.
And that's what God responds to.
Because the God who is bigger than you think is closer than you realize.
He's closer to your fears.
He's closer to your questions.
He's closer to your confusion.
He's closer to your ordinary life.
and your impossible situation.
See, Mary's story isn't meant for us to see, wow, God is so far from us.
It's the opposite.
It's meant to see that God is near.
He is close.
The mighty God answered the world quietly so that we know that he's both cosmic and close.
Infinite and intimate.
Big and personal.
The truth of Christmas.
And see, this is the truth of Christmas.
This is the truth of Advent.
that God who holds the universe of the God who steps into our life and wants to walk with us.
So where we go from here?
What does it look like for us today?
If the God is both bigger than we think and closer than we realize, the question becomes how to respond to God like that.
Luke gives us a picture in Mary, a picture of trust and surrender and honesty in the middle of uncertainty.
And that becomes our invitation as well.
Some of us actually walked into this room carrying some things that feel impossible.
Maybe you walked into this room feeling like, hey, I have a diagnosis that I've been carrying alone.
And two months I didn't even see coming.
Maybe you walked into this room with a fractured relationship.
You don't know how to repair.
A financial weight that's only increasing as interest rates increase and groceries get more expensive.
that fear about the future, the fear about the future of your kids, your job, your aging parents, your retirement.
Maybe your caring, silent prayer that has been sitting unanswered for so long that you stopped praying out loud.
Maybe you're tired from holding everything together.
On the outside, you are falling apart, but you are falling apart quietly on the inside.
And maybe like Mary,
You've been living in that in-between space.
The tension between what you see and what God has said.
Between what you feel and what God has said that you should hope for.
Between your own capacity and the character of God.
That's where this Christmas story meets us.
Right in the middle of the places we can't fix and we can't control.
Places that we can't explain.
See, Mary didn't respond with a perfect understanding.
She responded with open hand.
She didn't pretend she was strong.
She didn't fake certainty.
She didn't minimize what God was asking for her to walk into.
She simply said, I am the Lord's servant.
She opened her heart to what God was already doing in her life.
So what does that look like for us?
For some it means actually being honest.
with God about the fear that you've been carrying.
For others it means trusting someone in your life with what you have been struggling with alone.
Maybe it means letting go of the belief that God only works through dramatic events and dramatic moments and recognizing that he's already present in the quiet, in your ordinary
life in the ordinary places of your life.
And for others, it means choosing to weave again that God is not just compassionate, that he is mighty.
He can act, he can move, he can do the impossible.
Maybe your first step this week is praying a simple prayer like Mary.
God, I don't understand how this will work, but I trust you.
Maybe your step is sharing your burden or your doubt with your small group.
Letting go of the idea that your situation is too small or too messy or too ordinary for God to step into.
Whatever it looks like, the invitation is the same.
Will you trust the Almighty God who is closer than you realize?
Can I ask you as a question?
What is your Nazareth?
What is your unseen broken place?
Your unknown suffering?
The place where you feel like no one sees you in?
See, Nazareth can look like a broken relationship that feels
Like it isn't what you want it to be.
Like you show up, you're there, you're married, you're in a relationship, but your heart is tired.
You're done.
For some, it could be that diagnosis that you carried in into this room and you feel like, hey, I didn't ask for this.
I don't want this.
I shouldn't be having to deal with this.
Does anyone see them suffering?
Maybe it's not financial pressure that you're feeling or that prayer that hasn't been answered or that dream that feels like it's slipping away.
Maybe it's the ordinary grind of parenting.
The loneliness of sitting beside someone every single day and feeling like you're a miles apart from them.
or maybe it's a habit that you just can't break, or the fear that you can't shake, or the situation that you are convinced yourself that God wouldn't even bother to step into.
Can I challenge you to actually trust God with your situation?
What would it look like for you to follow Mary?
Follow her example.
and allow God to step into your situation.
Because we all have a Nazareth.
And the story of Mary confronts each of us with this reality.
To the mighty God steps into places we've written off, spaces we believe are too small or too messy or too complicated, too insignificant.
Places that we assume that, hey, God will bypass.
He will even step foot in here because it's just way too small.
But know that your situation isn't small for God.
It's a big deal.
It's a big deal to a big God.
So here's the question I want to leave with you today.
Where do you need the Almighty God to meet you?
Where do you need the God who is bigger than you think and closer than we realize to step in?
Where do you need the mighty God?
Because he wants to be there in the midst of his situation with you.
As we get ready to pray, I want to invite you to do a simple, into a simple moment of honesty.
Now,
This is a moment for your neighbor or for your spouse.
This is a moment for just you and God.
If you're comfortable, I want to invite you to place your hands on your lap with your palms facing towards the sky.
Now, this is a dramatic gesture.
This is just a simple posture of surrender.
I want to say this, God,
I'm bringing you what feels too big for me and trusting that you are closer than I realize.
I want to take a moment and name it.
Name the fear that we've been carrying.
Name the doubt that keeps resurfacing.
Name the way that feels endless.
Name the place that feels impossible.
Name the Nazareth in our lives.
the Nazareth in your life.
Because the same God that stepped into you marries quiet room steps into your room.
The same God that whisper do not be afraid.
The Lord is with you is the same God that's whispering that to you now.
The mighty God hasn't forgotten about you.
He hasn't overlooked you.
He is closer than you realize.
Let's take a moment and name our Nazareth and bring that before God.
So Father, God, we thank You.
We praise You for Your love.
We thank You for the reminder that You'll give us today, that You are with us always.
That we are not alone in our situations, that we are not alone in our mess, in our mistakes, that we're not alone in our marriage, that we're not alone in our finances,
that we're not alone or a diagnosis, that we're not alone in the relationships that feel like they are far away.
Father, thank you for a reminder that you are with us and that you want us to lean on you.
You want us to be able to allow you to do what you do best, but first we need to invite you in.
So Lord, would you give those in this room the courage to do so?
The courage to name the thing that's been holding them down, name the thing that they have been trying to hide away, name their Nazareth, and remind them that their Nazareth is important, that you do your best work in the places that we think are overlooked.
Father, I thank you so much.
So reminder that you see us and that you know us and that we aren't forgotten.
Thank you for reminding those who need to hear that they are not forgotten.
That God hasn't forgotten about your son or daughter that hasn't
been home in a long time.
That God hasn't forgotten about the diagnosis that you received early this week.
That God hasn't forgotten about the marriage that feels like it is far, far away.
That God sees you and he loves you.
So Father, we thank you.
We praise you once again for all that you're doing in our midst.
And thank you for reminding us that you are near.
You're a culture that we realize.
And Jesus made my prayer.
Amen.